feat: make `astro:config` stable (#13560)
withastro/astro: .changeset/wild-rabbits-arrive.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> The virtual module `astro:config` is now stable, and it can be used without experimental flag, which is now removed:
> 
> ```diff
> // astro.config.mjs
> export default defineConfig({
> -  experimental: {
> -    serializeConfig: true
> -  }
> })
> ```
> 
> The virtual module exposes two sub-paths for controlled access to your configuration:
> 
> - `astro:config/client`: exposes config information that is safe to expose to the client.
> - `astro:config/server`: exposes additional information that is safe to expose to the server, such as file/dir paths.
> 
> To enable this new virtual module, add the `experimental.serializeManifest` feature flag to your Astro config:
> 
>   ```js
>   // astro.config.mjs
>   import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
>   export default defineConfig({
>     experimental: {
>       serializeManifest: true,
>     },
>   });
>   ```
> 
> Then, you can access the module in any file inside your project to import and use values from your Astro config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The virtual module `astro:config` introduced behind a flag in [v5.2.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/CHANGELOG.md#520) is no longer experimental and is available for general use.

This virtual module exposes two sub-paths for type-safe, controlled access to your configuration:

- `astro:config/client`: exposes config information that is safe to expose to the client.
- `astro:config/server`: exposes additional information that is safe to expose to the server, such as file and directory paths.

Access these in any file inside your project to import and use select values from your Astro config:
```

  ```js
  // src/utils.js
  import { trailingSlash } from 'astro:config/client';

  function addForwardSlash(path) {
    if (trailingSlash === 'always') {
      return path.endsWith('/') ? path : path + '/';
    } else {
      return path;
    }
  }
  ```

> For a complete overview, and to give feedback on this experimental API, see the [Serialized Manifest RFC](https://github.com/withastro/roadmap/blob/feat/serialised-config/proposals/0051-serialized-manifest.md).

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
If you were previously using this feature, please remove the experimental flag from your Astro config:

```diff
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
-  experimental: {
-    serializeConfig: true
-  }
})
```

If you have been waiting for feature stabilization before using configuration imports, you can now do so.

Please see [the `astro:config` reference](https://docs.astro.build/en/my-feature/) for more about this feature.
``````
